Audit logs: verify signatures (#5687)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/konnect/org-management/audit-logging/verify-signatures.md

---
title: Verify audit log signatures
content_type: how-to
badge: enterprise
beta: true
---

{{site.konnect_short_name}} uses an [ED25519 signature](https://ed25519.cr.yp.to/) on the audit logs it produces.

Audit logs can be exported in two different formats, CEF and JSON. 
Calculating the signature is slightly different for these formats.

## Verify a signature

> 1. Retrieve the public key from the audit log JWKS endpoint:

Reviewer: It was not clear to me initially, but perhaps engineering can confirm if it is standard. But the public key is the value found in the `"x"` attribute of the JWKS endpoint.

Author: Based on some googling around, that sounds right for ED25519 keys.

>     ```sh
>     curl -i -X GET https://us.api.konghq.com/v2/audit-log-webhook/jwks.json \
>     --header "Authorization: Bearer TOKEN"
>     ```

Reviewer: This endpoint does not require authorization. (Is publicly accessible)

```suggestion
    ```sh
    curl -i -X GET https://us.api.konghq.com/v2/audit-log-webhook/jwks.json
    ```
```

    The response should look something like this:

    ```json
    {
        "keys": [
            {
                "alg": "EdDSA",
                "crv": "Ed25519",
                "kid": "1d4608c22e448672d5386b4071b70442as45c58265",
                "kty": "OKP",
                "x": "aFNAu9QEQhiunrGuyS14ePHzoOb2vash783p1-_Nrc3M"
            }
        ]
    }
    ```
1. Extract the signature of the entry to calculate the signature to match. 

> 1. Decode the Base64 URL-encoded signature into bytes.

Reviewer: It looks like both the signature and the public key are Base64 URL-encoded. So both will need to be decoded into bytes.

1. Remove the signature value from the entry.

   The adjusted entry will look slightly different depending on the format that you're using. 
   See the [CEF verification payload](#cef-verification-payload) and 
   [JSON verification payload](#json-verification-payload) sections for examples.

> 1. Verify the ED25519 signature with the public key, signatureless audit log entry, and decoded signature.

Author: Are there code snippet examples we could add to any of these steps? Maybe for the last step?

konghq.com 
CEF:0|KongInc|Konnect|1.0|konnect|Authz.usage|1|rt=1681450748406 
src=127.0.0.6 
action=retrieve 
granted=true 
org_id=b065b594-6afc-4658-9101-5d9cf3f36b7b 
principal_id=87655c36-8d63-48fe-9a1e-53b28dfbc19b 
trace_id=3895213347334635099 
user_agent=grpc-node/1.24.11 
grpc-c/8.0.0 (linux; chttp2; ganges)
```

## JSON verification payload

For a JSON entry, the `sig` field, value, and prepended comma is removed from the entry. 

For example, this JSON entry:

```json
{
    "action": "read",
    "cef_version": "0",
    "event_class_id": "identity",
    "event_product": "Konnect",
    "event_ts": "2023-04-28T20:52:09Z",
    "event_vendor": "KongInc",
    "event_version": "1.0",
    "granted": true,
    "name": "Authz.identity-provider",
    "org_id": "b065b594-6afc-4658-9101-5d9cf3f36b7b ",
    "principal_id": "87655c36-8d63-48fe-9a1e-53b28dfbc19b ",
    "rt": 1682715129807,
    "severity": 1,
    "src": "127.0.0.6",
    "trace_id": 3895213347334635099,
    "user_agent": "grpc-go/1.54.0",
    "sig": "Jm73seSwAiacSBysDmgQ3D_R_1c39_T0Iuus9GqUEnAjCc-UnyKhFgS8jDx5UIl4J6PTCH5ouuPizwnjnMDECg"
}
```

Would have the signature calculated on this JSON payload:

{:.note}

> > **Note**: Don't add any extra whitespace or make any formatting changes to the JSON entries.

Reviewer: Due to this requirement, I think we cannot "pretty print" any of the JSON or CEF examples.

The message they would have to calculate the signature with literally has to be something like:
```JSON
{"action":"update","cef_version":"0","event_class_id":"auditlogs","event_product":"Konnect","event_ts":"2023-06-07T23:59:26Z","event_vendor":"KongInc","event_version":"1.0","granted":true,"name":"Authz.webhook","org_id":"2e2eca38-cf13-487f-90a7-2ab8b6b1fd77","principal_id":"33f7eed7-a407-4b0d-9b06-221afc45371f","rt":1686182366202,"severity":1,"src":"127.0.0.6","trace_id":5733225434988743696,"user_agent":"grpc-go/1.55.0"}
```
or
```CEF
2023-06-08T18:56:02Z konghq.com CEF:0|KongInc|Konnect|1.0|AUTHENTICATION_TYPE_PAT|AUTHENTICATION_OUTCOME_SUCCESS|0|rt=1686250562822 src=127.0.0.1 request=/api/v1/personal-access-tokens/introspect success=true org_id=2e2eca38-cf13-487f-90a7-2ab8b6b1fd77 principal_id=33f7eed7-a407-4b0d-9b06-221afc45371f trace_id=5121050581507016718 user_agent=grpc-go/1.55.0
```

---
title: Verify audit log signatures
content_type: how-to
badge: enterprise
beta: true
---

{{site.konnect_short_name}} uses an [ED25519 signature](https://ed25519.cr.yp.to/) on the audit logs it produces.

Audit logs can be exported in two different formats, CEF and JSON. 
Calculating the signature is slightly different for these formats.

## Verify a signature

1. Retrieve the public key from the audit log JWKS endpoint:

    ```sh
    curl -i -X GET https://us.api.konghq.com/v2/audit-log-webhook/jwks.json
    ```

    The response should look something like this, where the public key is 
    the value in the `x` attribute:

    ```json
    {
        "keys": [
            {
                "alg": "EdDSA",
                "crv": "Ed25519",
                "kid": "1d4608c22e448672d5386b4071b70442as45c58265",
                "kty": "OKP",
                "x": "aFNAu9QEQhiunrGuyS14ePHzoOb2vash783p1-_Nrc3M"
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

> 1. Extract the signature of the entry to calculate the signature to match. 

Reviewer 2: Does this just mean to copy the signature? Or is there something more you have to do to extract the signature?

Author: It really does just mean "copy", but the term extract is used here because they're _likely_ writing some code that will extract the signature. For example, here's a snippet that was used for testing internally: https://github.com/Kong/kaudit/blob/main/cmd/sig-verify/main.go#L39

```

Would have the signature calculated on this payload:

```
Apr 14 05:39:08 konghq.com CEF:0|KongInc|Konnect|1.0|konnect|Authz.usage|1|rt=1681450748406 src=127.0.0.6 action=retrieve granted=true org_id=b065b594-6afc-4658-9101-5d9cf3f36b7b principal_id=87655c36-8d63-48fe-9a1e-53b28dfbc19b trace_id=3895213347334635099 user_agent=grpc-node/1.24.11 grpc-c/8.0.0 (linux; chttp2; ganges)
```

## JSON verification payload

For a JSON entry, the `sig` field, value, and prepended comma is removed from the entry. 

For example, this JSON entry:

```json
{"action":"read","cef_version":"0","event_class_id":"identity","event_product":"Konnect","event_ts":"2023-04-28T20:52:09Z","event_vendor":"KongInc","event_version":"1.0","granted":true,"name":"Authz.identity-provider","org_id":"b065b594-6afc-4658-9101-5d9cf3f36b7b","principal_id":"87655c36-8d63-48fe-9a1e-53b28dfbc19b","rt":1682715129807,"severity":1,"src":"127.0.0.6","trace_id":3895213347334635099,"user_agent":"grpc-go/1.54.0","sig":"Jm73seSwAiacSBysDmgQ3D_R_1c39_T0Iuus9GqUEnAjCc-UnyKhFgS8jDx5UIl4J6PTCH5ouuPizwnjnMDECg"}
```

> Would have the signature calculated on this JSON payload:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Would calculate the signature on this JSON payload:
```
